Hi again. Right now, it seems like the perfect time
to take a step back from learning about data analytics, so you can get excited about what
comes after you're done here. The road to finding a job
can be challenging, but you're building up your skillset and learning what it takes
to be a data analyst. In this video, we'll cover what you
can expect from your job search, plus some tips for using
your newfound skills and knowledge to make your search easier. I remember when I first started out. I reached out to as many people as I
could to learn about their career paths, their companies, and their roles. I wanted to get a good
idea of what to expect. And that's what we're doing now: giving you an idea of what to
expect during your own job search. It's important to remember that
everyone's search will be different. It might depend on where you live, what
your interests are within the field, and personal preferences, like the type of work environment
you feel comfortable in. This is all part of making this
journey your own as you hunt for a job that's perfect for you. The most common way to start is
by checking out available jobs. There's a lot of job sites that
are built specifically for people seeking employment. You can also go to company websites where they usually post job listings too. These sites might even have an option to
send you an alert when a role matching your search becomes available. Once you find a few that you like, do some research to learn
more about the companies and the details about the specific
positions you'll be applying for. Then you can update your resume or
create a new one. You'll want it to be specific and
reflect what each company is looking for. But you can definitely have a master
resume that you tweak for each position. It can also help to create a spreadsheet
with all of your experiences and accomplishments to help you decide what
to include in your resume for each. If you're using a professional
networking site like LinkedIn, you might already have connections who
can help you with your job search. Maybe you know someone who
can write a referral for you or knows of a job within their
company that would suit you. And even if you don't have any
luck with your connections, you can also reach out to employees of
the companies you're interested in. They might be able to give you some
insight on the best ways to highlight your skills and experience when applying. And, it's okay
if they don't write back. Keep trying! This is probably a good time to tell
you of the most challenging part of a job search: hearing the word "no." You will probably hear it a lot, and
that's 100% okay. It's part of everyone's experience, especially when switching career paths.
People you reach out to might not be able to help you. Companies you would love to work for
might not have any openings. Jobs you applied for
might be filled by someone else, and that's all part of the process. The key is to stay focused. Don't get discouraged, and
above all else believe in yourself. Okay, speech over, but don't forget it, or
I'll be forced to give more speeches. So, back to your search. If the company you're
applying to is interested, your first point of contact
might be a recruiter. A recruiter might also reach out to
you based on their own research. They may find your professional profile
online and think you're a good match for a position. Speaking of which,
that's another reason to keep building and refreshing your online profile. Recruiters are there to make sure
you're a legitimate candidate for the job posted in the description. So when you talk with the recruiter,
whether on the phone, online or in person, be professional and personable. It's natural to feel nervous here. So, it can help to refer back to your
resume to wow them with your knowledge of the data analytics industry. And remember, recruiters
are also looking for someone and they're hoping it'll be you. Here's another tip. Using technical terms like "SQL" and "clean data" will show recruiters
that you know what you're doing. Recruiters probably won't go into too
much detail about the ins and outs. But they want to see that you
know what you're talking about. They might also give you prep materials or
other recommendations. Take advantage of these because
recruiters want you to do well. Next up is usually the hiring manager. This is the most important step. The hiring manager's job is to evaluate
whether you have the ability to do the work and whether you'd be
a good fit for their team. Your job is to convince
them that yes, you do, and yes, you would be. A good thing you can do
here is use LinkedIn or other professional sites to
research the hiring managers or even other analysts who have a similar
role to the one you're applying for. The more information
you have about the job, the better your chances
of actually getting it. You should also use this opportunity
to ask lots of questions to help you figure out if
the company's a good fit for you. You can do this when you
talk to recruiters too. Now if the hiring manager
sees you as a fit, it's very possible you'll have
at least one more interview. The point of these interviews is to
give your future stakeholders and teammates a chance to decide if you're
the best candidate for the position. The next step is the best step. If all goes well,
you'll get an official offer. Usually by phone first and
maybe followed by an official letter. At this point, feel free to celebrate. Call everyone and celebrate some more. But even if it's your dream job, make sure it's a competitive
offer before you sign. Remember, if they reach
out to you with an offer, that means they want you
as much as you want them. If you're interviewing at other places,
you can leverage this to figure out if negotiating for
a more competitive offer is possible. You should also research salaries,
benefits, vacation time, and any other factors that are important
to you for similar jobs. If you can show specific research like
company x gives y amount more for the same role, there's usually some room to negotiate
your salary, vacation days, or something else. Keep in mind, you'll need to find
a balance between what you want, what they want to give you, and
what's fair. So know your own worth but also understand
that the company hiring you has already placed a certain
value on your role. Okay, let's say that
everything works out, and you're happy with a negotiated deal and
excited to join your new team. Even then, hit pause and give yourself at least two weeks
before you officially start. Why? Well, if you're already employed
somewhere else during your job search, it's customary and polite to give at
least a two-week notice at your old job before starting at the new one. Plus, it's good to give yourself a break
before starting your exciting new adventure. You've earned it. By now you should have a pretty
good idea of what to expect when you start your data
analyst job search. Coming up we'll talk more
about building your resume. See you in the next video.