Great, you're back. When you take a picture, you usually try to capture lots of different things in one image. Maybe you're taking a picture of the sunset and want to
capture the clouds, the tree line and the mountains. Basically, you want a snapshot
of that entire moment. You can think of building
a resume in the same way. You want your resume to
be a snapshot of all that you've done both in school
and professionally. In this video, we'll go through the process of building a resume, which you'll be able to
add your own details too. Keep in mind this is a snapshot. When managers and recruiters look at what you've
included in your resume, they should be able to tell right away what you can
offer their company. The key here is to be brief. Try to keep everything
in one page and each description to just
a few bullet points. Two to four bullet
points is enough but remember to keep your
bullet points concise. Sticking to one page
will help you stay focused on the details that best reflect who you are or who you
want to be professionally. One page might also be all that hiring managers and recruiters
have time to look at. They're busy people,
so you want to get their attention with your
resume as quickly as possible. Now let's talk about actually
building your resume. This is where templates come in. They're a great way to build a brand new resume or reformat
one you already have. Programs like Microsoft
Word or Google Docs and even some job search websites all have templates you can use. A template has placeholders for the information
you'll need to enter and its own design elements to make your resume
look inviting. You'll have a chance to explore this option a little later. For now, we'll go through
the steps you can take to make your
resume professional, easy to read and error-free. If you already have
a resume document, you can use these
steps to tweak it. Now, there's more than one
way to build a resume, but most have contact information at the top of the document. This includes your name, address, phone number,
and email address. If you have multiple email
addresses or phone numbers, use the ones that are most reliable and sound professional. It's also great if you can use your first and last name
in your email address, like janedoe17@email.com. You should also make sure
that your contact information matches the details that you've included on
professional websites. While most resumes have contact information
in the same place, it's up to you how
you organize that info. A format that focuses more
on skills and qualifications and less on work
history is great for people who have gaps
in their work history. It's also good for those who are just starting
out their career or making a career change,
and that might be you. If you do want to highlight
your work history, feel free to include details of your work experience starting
with your most recent job. If you've had lots
of jobs that are related to a new position
you're applying for, this format make sense. If you're editing a
resume you already have, you can keep it in
the same format and adjust the details. If you're starting a new one or building a resume
for the first time, choose the format that makes
the most sense for you. There's lots of resume
resources online. You should browse through a bunch of different
resumes to get an idea of the formats you
think work best for you. Once you've decided
on your format, you can start adding
your details. Some resumes begin
with the summary, but this is optional. A summary can be helpful if you have experience that
is not traditional for a data analyst or if you're making
a career transition. If you decide to
include a summary, keep it to one or two
sentences that highlight your strengths and how you can help the company
you're applying to. You'll also want to
make sure your summary includes positive
words about yourself, like dedicated and proactive. You can support those
words with data, like the number of years
you've worked or the tools you're experienced in like
SQL and spreadsheets. A summary might start
off with something like hardworking customer
service representative with over five years
of experience. Once you've completed
this program and have your certificate, you'll be able to
include that too, which could sound like this, "entry-level data analytics
professional recently completed the Google Data Analytics
Professional Certificate." Sounds pretty good, doesn't it? Another option is leaving a placeholder for your
summary while you build the rest of your resume and then writing it after you
finish the other sections. This way, you can review the
skills and experience you've mentioned and grab two or three of the highlights
to use in your summary. It's also good to note that
the summary might change a little as you apply
for different jobs. If you're including a
work experience section, there's lots of different types of experience you could add. Outside of jobs with
other companies, you could also include
volunteer positions you've had and any freelance or
side work you've done. The key here is the way in which you describe
these experiences. Try to describe the
work you did in a way that relates to the position
you're applying for. Most job descriptions have minimum qualifications
or requirements listed. These are the
experiences, skills, and education you'll need to
be considered for the job. It's important to clearly
state them in your resume. If you're a good match, the next step is checking out
preferred qualifications, which lots of job
descriptions also include. These aren't required, but every additional
qualification you match makes you a more competitive candidate
for the role. Including any part of your skills and
experience that matches a job description will help your resume rise above
the competition. If a job listing describes a job responsibility as "effectively managing
data resources," you'll want to have
your own description that reflects that
responsibility. For example, if
you volunteered or worked at a local school
or community center, you might say that you
"effectively managed resources for
after-school activities." Later on, you'll learn more ways to make your
work history work for you. It's helpful to
describe your skills and qualifications
in the same way. For example, if a listing talks about organization and
partnering with others, try to think about relevant
experiences you've had. Maybe you've helped
organize the food drive or partnered with someone to
start an online business. In your descriptions, you want to highlight
the impact you've had in your role, as well as the impact
the role had on you. If you helped a business get started or reach new heights, talk about that experience and how you played a part in it. Or if you worked at a store
when it first opened, you can say that
you helped launch the successful business by ensuring quality
customer service. If you used data analytics
in any of your jobs, you'll definitely want
to include that as well. We'll cover how to add specific data analysis
skills a little bit later. One way to do this is to follow a formula in
your descriptions: Accomplished X as
measured by Y, by doing Z. Here's an example of how
this might read on a resume: Selected as one of 275
participants nationwide for this 12-month professional
development program for high- achieving talent based on leadership potential
and academic success. If you've gained new skills
in one of your experiences, be sure to highlight them
all and how they helped. This is probably
as good a spot as any to bring up data analytics. Even if this program is the first time you really
thought about data analytics, now that you're equipped
with some knowledge, you'll want to use
that to your benefit. If you've ever managed money, maybe that means you helped the business analyze
future earnings. Or maybe you created
a budget based on your analysis of
previous spending. Even if it was for your own
or a friend's small business, it's still data that
you've analyzed. Now you can reflect on when and how and use it
in your resume. After you've added work
experience and skills, you should include a section for any education you've completed. Yes, this course
absolutely counts. You can add this course as
part of your education, and you can also refer to it in your summary and skill sections. Depending on the
format of your resume, you might want to add a section for technical skills you've acquired both in this
course and elsewhere. Besides technical
skills like SQL, you could also include language proficiencies
in this section. Having some ability in
a language other than English can only help
your job search. Now you have an
idea of how to make your resume look
professional and appealing. As you move forward, you'll learn even more about how to make your resume shine. By the end, you'll have a
resume you can be proud of. Next up, we'll talk about
how to make your resume truly unique. See you soon.