Great to see you again. Building a strong resume is a great way to find
success in your job hunt. You've had the chance to
start building your resume, and now we'll take the
next step by showing you how to refine your resume for data analytics jobs.
Let's get started. For data analytics, one of
the most important things your resume should do is show that you are a
clear communicator. Companies looking for
analysts want to know that the people they hire
can do the analysis, but also can explain it to any audience in a
clear and direct way. Your first audience as a
data analyst will most likely be hiring
managers and recruiters. Being direct and coherent in your resume will go a long
way with them as well. Let's start with the
summary section. While you won't go into
too much detail in this section about any of
your work experiences, it's a good spot to
point out if you're transitioning into
a new career role. You might add something like, "transitioning from a career in the auto industry and seeking a full-time role in the
field of data analytics." One strategy you can use in
your summary and throughout your resume is P-A-R,
or PAR statements. PAR stands for Problem,
Action, Result. This is a great way to help you write clearly and concisely. Instead of saying something like, "was responsible for
writing two blogs a month," you'd say, "earned
little-known website over 2,000 new clicks through
strategic blogging." The website being
little-known is the problem. The strategic action is the strategic blogging. And the result is the
2,000 new clicks. Adding PAR statements to
your job descriptions or skill section can help with the organization and
consistency in your resume. They definitely helped
me when I changed jobs. Speaking of the skill section, make sure you include any
skills and qualifications you've acquired through this
course and on your own. You don't need to
be super technical. But talking about your
experience with spreadsheets, SQL, Tableau, and R, which is a programming language
that we'll get to later, will enhance your resume and your chances
of getting a job. If you're listing
qualifications or skills, you might include a spot for programming languages
and then list SQL and R, which are both a part of the Google Data
Analytics certificate. You might even add in
the top functions, packages or formulas that you're comfortable with in each. It also makes sense to
include skills you've acquired in spreadsheets
like pivot tables. Pivot tables, SQL, R, and lots of other terms
we covered here might get you noticed by hiring
managers and recruiters. But you definitely
want your resume to accurately represent your
skills and abilities. Only add these skills after you've completed
this certificate. Once you start
applying the ideas we talked about here to your resume, you'll be well on
your way to setting yourself apart from
other candidates. After you've completed
your final course, you'll have the
opportunity to complete a case study and link
it on your resume. This'll be a great opportunity to show recruiters and hiring managers the skills you've learned while earning
your certificate. Before you know it, you'll have a pretty great
resume that you can update quickly whenever you're searching for a data analyst job. Nothing wrong with that. Up next, we'll talk more about adding experienced to your
resume. Bye for now.