Welcome back. Everyone out there has their own
personal work history. We all started somewhere, whether part-time or full-time. What matters for your resume is how you present the
work you've done. In this video, we'll
hone in on work history, and how you can translate yours effectively for your
data analyst resume. If you don't have a
specific section for work history in your
resume, that's okay. You can use the
same basic ideas to adjust your skills and
qualifications section. The good news is that you already have a lot
of the skills that recruiters and hiring agents look for when they hire data analysts. You've probably used lots
of them in previous jobs. We call these
"transferable skills." Transferable skills are
skills and qualities that can transfer from one job
or industry to another. Think about all the positions you've held, associate, owner, team member, manager, and how they might be used
as a data analyst. Let's start with
the big one that we talked about before:
communication. When job descriptions
say they want strong communication
skills for a data analyst, it usually means they want someone who can speak
about what they do to people who aren't as
technical or analytical. If someone who's
not familiar with the analytics can understand
what you're talking about when you try to
explain it to them, your communication skills
are usually good-to-go. You've probably had to communicate
in other jobs you had, whether with employees,
customers or clients, team members, or managers. You might have had to
give presentations too, whether formal or informal. In your work history section, you can highlight
how your effective communication skills
have helped you. You can also refer to
specific presentations you've made and the outcomes
of those presentations, and you can even include the audience for
your presentations, especially if you present it to large groups or people
in senior positions. After listing job details, like the place and
length of employment, you might add something like, "effectively implemented
and communicated daily workflow to
fellow team members, resulting in an increase
in productivity." Here you'd change the details
based on the work you did. Since you'll be working
in the world of data, including any quantitative
data would be ideal. For example, the increase in productivity might have
been a 15 percent increase. As long as you have a
way to back up your data, hopefully with more data, then you can put
it in your resume. This example brings us to
the next transferable skill. Data analysts are
problem-solvers. When problems arise in a
database or lines of code, data analysts need to be able to find and troubleshoot
the problem. If you have no prior
experience working with data, you can still talk about
your problem-solving skills. That last example we shared does a great job of showing an
ability to problem-solve. It's actually written as a PAR, or problem, action,
results statement, which we talked about earlier. The problem is that the
daily workflow procedures were not in place. The action is that you
put the procedures into effect and communicated
them to your team, and the result is that productivity increased
by 15 percent. This makes it clear
that there was a problem, and you solved it. We can also use a statement
to point out teamwork as an important quality to bring to the data analyst world. While you might have plenty
of work to do on your own, it'll always be for the
benefit of the team. Team means not only the
data team you're part of, but the whole company as well. That's a few skills
you can add to your work experience and skills and
qualifications sections. All of these are
known as soft skills. Soft skills are
non-technical traits and behaviors that
relate to how you work. Being detail-oriented and
demonstrating perseverance are two more examples
of soft skills that anyone hiring a data
analyst will look for. Companies want to
know that you will do your analysis carefully
and to completion, no matter what setbacks you
might face along the way. If you worked at a retail job, you can talk about how your
attention to detail helps you find discrepancies while
handling a high volume of money, and you could add
how you continue to practice customer
service at a high level, despite a high turnover rate
at the management level. These are just some
examples to think about and apply to
your work details. Take a moment and think
back to your last job, or maybe it's your current job. What soft skills do you
use to find success? Are you starting to
understand how those are transferable to the
world of data analytics? Using PAR statements
and focusing on your transferable soft skills can really add to the
power of your resume. Now you can keep powering on
to the next step to continue learning about the
data analytics field and your future job in it. See you in the next video.