Hi, I'm Kate. I'm a senior
product analyst at Google. I have always been perhaps an
annoyingly curious person. Even as a child, I
remember I would take things apart just
to see how they worked. I just love seeing how
things work together, and I love asking new questions. I love having more information. I think that makes me a more well-rounded person and
definitely a better analyst. Every step in my career, including the first
step in the army, I always picked at what I
could in terms of trying to self teach on things like
databases and things like data. One of my first
forays into data was, I had been deployed
and when I came back, I worked with the
personnel office and we had to do things
like track where everybody was and
what their pay was and their rank and if
they were getting awards, and there wasn't a single
system to work through in that, so I use an Access database. It took me forever to
learn what a foreign key was and what a primary key was. I'll be totally honest, I did really poorly. I ended up going back to Excel, but it was a really good
learning experience. After my time in the army, I didn't have a sense
of what I wanted to do. I had been doing personnel, but I really did still
enjoy the technology piece. I somehow spun my army
career into logistics and got a job doing logistics for what they
call the roundhouse. It is where they work on
the locomotive engines. I did a lot of
database maintenance. When I left the railroad, I went to a welding
company where I started out as a logistics person
working on trucks. I mean truck parts. But
then I was able to transition into a more
database data-focused role. After my time at the
welding company, I was ready to try something
a lot more technical. I actually ended up working for a small consulting
firm that was very boutiquey and did a
lot of work with Tableau, where we started to work with companies and taught them how
to do data visualization. I did Tableau training for awhile. But really I was there
for over six years, and through my time there, I did database engineering, I did data engineering. I got to run a team of analysts, I got to teach people
how to do consulting. There was a lot of growth for me in that six-year time period. After that, I decided
to come to Google. I get to work with
stakeholders on translations throughout
the Google world. If anybody wants to translate something from one
language to another, I get to work on the
analytics of that. That means that if you take 500 different languages or 40 different languages,
what does it cost? How many words do we translate? What does that translation
quality look like? If I look back on my career, I would have told
myself five, ten years ago to
focus on something. Don't try to feel
too overwhelmed. The important thing to
be able to do is to be able to ask the right question and know how to answer it. I have confidence. Confidence is really important because people are coming
to me for answers. That's my job, is to think really hard about the
questions and give them answers that make them better and make
the company better. The fact that I know
that I can do this now, now that I've put that
time and effort into it, it's really, really rewarding.