Hello. If you haven't done a search for a data analyst
job yet, give it a try. One thing you might notice is how many variations of data
analysts jobs there are. You'll find some that just say "data analyst" in the job title, and others that include
more details like "market research analyst"
and "digital data analyst." This variety is a good thing. It means that as a data analyst, you'll have a pretty wide range of job opportunities available. While you might not
be the right fit for every position that's posted, every position that's posted might not be the
right fit for you. As you continue moving forward, it's important to keep
your own interests in mind. There might be certain topics
that we've covered or we'll cover that you find yourself
especially interested in. When you're job hunting, you might want to tailor your search to find jobs that are focused on or include
your areas of interest. For example, if a job description
lists data cleaning as a job responsibility
and you think that you'd really
enjoy that process, you could make that
job your top priority. At the same time, think
about your other interests. If you have a background
in retail or medicine or finance and had a good
experience with it, you might apply for jobs
that match your background. As an added bonus, your experience will look
great on your resume. But it's also okay to search
for jobs in an area of personal interest where you have no professional experience. If you've always loved cars, check out what positions
the auto industry has. If you're fascinated by how
utility companies work, hunt for jobs in the energy
and utilities industry. Finding a job is great. Finding a job you
love is even better. Always keep in mind
that data analytics is constantly evolving within
lots of different industries. Job titles and hiring
needs might also change. But the opportunities,
no matter what they are when you're
searching, will be there. Now let's preview some
of the many kinds of data analyst jobs
that are out there. The certificate you
earn here will be most applicable to junior or associate
data analyst positions. But that doesn't mean you have to limit your job search to only postings for junior
or associate analysts. Job titles come in
all shapes and sizes. New analysts work in a
wide range of industries. Health care analysts gather
and interpret data from sources like electronic
health records and patient surveys. Their work helps organizations improve the quality
of their care. Health care analysts might
also look for ways to lower the cost of care and
improve patient experience. Data analysts in
marketing complete quantitative and qualitative
market analysis. They identify
important statistics and interpret and present their findings to
help stakeholders understand the data behind
their marketing strategies. Business intelligence
analysts help companies use data they've collected to increase
their efficiency and maximize their profits. These analysts usually work
with large amounts of data to identify trends and
generate business insights. Financial analysts also
work with lots of data. Really all analysts do. But financial analysts use
the data to identify and potentially recommend business and investment
opportunities. If you're a junior
analyst in this field, you'll probably start off doing a lot of data gathering and financial modeling as well
as spreadsheet maintenance. This is just a small taste of the types of data
analyst jobs out there. Each type we've
covered can branch out into other
industries as well. For example, business intelligence analysts
can work in health care, government, e-commerce and more. It's exciting to think
about the possibilities. There's more work for
you to do of course, but there's nothing wrong
with looking ahead. When you get to that place
you're looking ahead to, you'll be able to take charge and find the best job for you. For the time being,
we'll keep exploring your resume. See you soon.